Recipe for fufu

Ingredients:

~1 teaspoon of peeled, fresh grated ginger (about an inch to 1 1/2 inch)
2–3 cloves of garlic, crushed
1/2 teaspoon of ground aniseed (sekoni) or other seasoning of your choice
1 heaping teaspoon of no-salt seasoning of your choice (I’m using Mrs. Dash garlic and herb; many Ghanaians would likely use a couple of seasoning cubes)
1/2 to 1 teaspoon of ground dried red chili pepper
1 teaspoon salt (or to taste, or substitute seasoning salt)
2 small bay leaves
1/2 cup onion, chopped
3 whole kpakpo shito, whole, if available and (if not, substitute your choice of pepper(s), top(s) sliced off (about a tablespoon), or omit altogether
Process:

Put the goat meat in a soup pot and season it with the above ingredients. Stir the goat meat well, and add 1/2 cup water to the pot. Cover, bring the water to a boil, lower the heat to simmer while you prepare a second pot with:
4 oz of washed tomatoes, whole (1 large or 2 small-to-medium. I used 4 small Campari)
~4 oz of peeled onion (about 1 medium)
Fresh whole red chilli peppers to taste (probably 1 to 3, depending on type and heat), tops cut off, and seeded if you like
4 cups of water
2. Bring that water to a boil and simmer 10 or 15 minutes until the vegetables are soft, then remove grind them together (in a blender or anasanka) and return them to the water in the second pot, along with 4 more cups of water.

3. Stir in 1 tablespoon of tomato paste, let it simmer a few minutes, and add the broth to the meat. Let the soup simmer until the goat meat is tender, then remove the goat meat and, for a nice clear soup, strain the broth through a sieve, into the using a spoon if necessary to help force some of the ground vegetables through the sieve (scrape the underside of the strainer with a spoon).

4. Return the meat to the pot and adjust the seasonings (salt, onion, tomato, pepper, etc.) to taste. This may need to simmer for a couple of hours: goat meat tends to be tougher than beef. Add a little more water if necessary.

Hint: To simplify this recipe, grind the vegetables (tomatoes, onion, pepper) at the beginning and add them to the meat pot, along with 8 cups of water. Barbara insists that the best flavor is obtained if you first allow the goat meat to simmer for 15 minutes before adding the vegetable broth.

Hint: There are many variations of this recipe: you can cook some eggplant or zucchini in a saucepan, then blend and add it near the end for a thicker soup; or you can add many other vegetables like okra or mushrooms, or other herbs or seasonings.


